Are
there
some people out there in the state that you think
deserve special credit for that support, special
appreciation?
not being particularly in the know about a lot of
those things. I've always been an outsider. We
were shielded from legislation. I think this is
where the actions came. Are you aware of some
governors or politicians that were helpful?
Not particularly. I think there's some of those
that were on the legislature budget board or those
that met to listen to the presentations. Like I'm
guessing Bill Moore. Bill Moore, probably. Bill
was always a defender of and a promoter of Texas
A&M. If it was the Tittle Wings team, I think Bill
would have and our comparatively shy state
representative. No, before, earlier. He went to
our church. He was a Presbyterian bachelor. had an
office above J.C. Penney in that, oh, what was his
name? He later became a district, I mean, adjusted
the piece. Oh, what was his name? He was on the
Appropriations Committee. Is there any governor
that was sensitive to veterinary medicine?
Briscoe, Kahn? I would think Donald Briscoe.
Yeah, I don't think Donald Briscoe, but I don't
know of any particular instances in there that,
like I say, I have claim innocence in no way. Which
presidents do you think were the most, A&M
presidents, were the most concerned about vet
medicine?
I never looked at the president's favorite. I
thought the person that probably did more for vet
medicine than as he did for the Institutes of
Reserve, really. I just respect his attitude and
what he did, even though he had opposition, and
those were people who didn't want to be told
anything. Are there any special moments that you
recall with joy and pride when some special
something happened?
Probably when the Neopets school was open was one.
I can't think of anything. My relationship there
is one highlight.
Of
all your scholarly work, what one or two
publications would you point to with greatest
pride?
My research was mainly diversified, very
diversified. As I tell you, the one that I was most
satisfied with was one of the horses, because we
did define that. And it has an impact. We did some
other things that I think were... This is the one
about the, and the fence? Yes. Okay. Where did you
publish that? Journal of American Medical
Association, American Journal of Veterinary
Research. And
we had other publications on national disease. I
did quite a bit on identifying new pathogens of
fungi and worked with the National Institute of
Health mycologists on those. And those were
enjoyable because they new knowledge and the
identification of new species, which have later
been found in humans.
Some of the others are, like I say, the one on the
sheep has gotten less emphasis because sheep are
just not that important anymore. And that's in
some people's opinion. But
I guess the thing that I've gotten satisfaction
out of in my career has been my graduate program,
which we had good people that came out and are
well-represented.
Which doctoral students would you point to with
greatest pride?
Well, I think Gary Adams is one. Ken Pierce.
We had others like Gwynne Allman.
Depending on accomplishments or other
attention, Kirkland Kerr. Kerr, K-E-R-R. He went
to LSU, didn't he? No, no. Well, he went to LSU, but
then he went on. He's ill. All right,
let's make believe that you...
Who's that? Oh, Roger is one of your graduate
students? Mm-hmm. Let's make believe that you've
now just been hired as a consultant to give advice
today to the Dean of Veterinary Medicine at Texas
A&M. What advice would you give the Dean of
Veterinary Medicine today?
The Dean of Veterinary Medicine has to work on,
it's fairly cool, for the faculty, individual
faculty member, that he knows that that faculty
member needs to excel for his own good and
academically, which means being a scholar and
being a good teacher. And then he should organize
so he can promote that. And I think that
I've got a lot of thanks for that.
What are you going to tell him then? We just funded a
chair in medical education.
What they proposed may not be what I want to see. I
would like to see a situation where a teacher can
teach and a student comes to him wanting
knowledge, but he does not have to quiz that
student. by challenging them, but they can work
together to accomplish this. Now, I know that's
contrary to the great authoritarian power of the
faculty member. But to me, it would be just a
wonderful experience to be in a situation where a
student comes to you, and he wants you. I don't
understand this. And you feel like you can talk to
him. Whether we're not worried about giving them
the answer to the question you're going to ask.
Sounds like a good plan to me. Yeah. I would love to
see that. And that's what they're fortunate with
this, is it'll work with young faculty.
That was the advice for the department. No, that
was for the dean. For the dean. OK. Now, what advice
would you give to the department?
Or an apartment head? Either way. Well, I think
that each faculty member needs an apartment head
that nobody respects.
And I always had this philosophy, and I think I got
this, I guess, from the years of Earl Broder.
His philosophy was... I propose a raise for this
person or a promotion and his answer would be, you
hired this person and he told me he was a good
teacher, he's going to be an excellent person.
He's a leader in his field and we paid, set a budget
to pay him for this and we're paying him for that.
What has he done now? to warrant this. Tell me.
Don't tell me again he's a good teacher. And I feel
like that if department heads could approach the
thing, what can I do for you today? And if I go as your
representative to the dean, what can I tell the
dean that you're done? Now, were you a believer in
merit salary? Oh, yes. And I believe in demerit
salaries. Because I think that there is such a
thing that faculty members take, some faculty
members take a job,
this is mine, I'm going to do this, and they'll say,
this is an opportunity for me. And those that want a
position And there's one thing, a difference from
those who want opportunity. And I think that needs
to be conveyed to the faculty by the department
heads in such a way. And I think one of the problems
is that people are hired now not knowing that they
may want to expect it at a certain time because
nobody says so.
Now one of my standard questions at this point,
you've just answered in an unusual way. Normally I
say, if you could make a very significant gift to
Texas A&M, what would it be for? And you've
already, yeah. Has that been announced? Okay. I
think it has. It's been in the veterinary thing.
Okay. Okay. I think the...
Foundation is going to have it in their magazine.
Right then, I have only two other questions.
What does it mean to be a Texas Aggie? What is
special about being a product of this
institution?
I have to say I'm proud to be a Texas Aggie. For a long
time, I didn't know what it meant to be a Texan
Aggie. I was a graduate of this institute. I got a
degree. I'm going out and conquering the world or
whatever. And I had a little office over in
Brennan.
I'm old. A little bit emotional, but Hugh Miller
used to come to me, sit in my office and talk to me. He
didn't talk about the Aggies, are we going to win,
or that. He just was interested in what was going
on. He was a good neighbor. And I had other people
that do the same thing.
Charlie Rankin used to come by. He was,
I never knew that the Aggies were supposed to be
important to each other. We're supposed to be
what? Important to each other. Oh. Significant.
And I just, it wasn't engendered in me because I'd
gone through work. I
guess because I wasn't a member of the Corps. I
lived in the unit. My background is a little
different, I can say. Sometimes I'm almost
embarrassed.
But... Yeah, I'm proud to be
an Aggie. All right, then the last question is a
follow-up on that. What feelings do you have in
your heart about A&M today?
I believe in education.
I believe in the learning process. And Mildred's
going to get mad at me if I say it. I believe in God.
God and the church.
division
organization has killed a lot of the spirit and in
And that, I guess, is way over. But we always
second-guess other people's behaviors, and
that's probably one of them. Let me ask you
something else. You said when he retired, but he
just stepped down. Oh. And then stayed. When did
you retire then? In 86 first and then I went half
time and continued my research and then I spent
some time, went to New Zealand and lectured and a
few things like that. So you served a total of how
many years? Oh, I guess to the 80th. I was
I think the record says 54. It was a period of time, a
few months in there, that I served as an interim
basis.
But I would say 54 to 88.
Have we left out anything important that you want
to be sure to include? All right, well, let's
quit at that.